Gitaroo Man (PS2)
Review by Logan Moseley

Deep in the far reaches of the galaxy, lurking in the shadows lies a dastardly force that can only be won over by playing a guitar. Gitaroo Man starts you off on a relatively mellow hay ride. The story opens on a lazy, seemingly normal fall afternoon, our valiant hero just coming home from school, distraught over being bullied yet again. Addressing our hero by name, “U-1”, your talking dog charges you to master an alien guitar... and just like that the world is turned upside down. In no time a creature, one we can only guess is an infantile Satan, appears in U-1's room with his trusty “Axe”, challenging U-1 to a duel of fates – a duel for the legendary “Gitaroo”.

Like most rhythm games Gitaroo Man has you play alongside pre-recorded music. The genius of this game, however, lies entirely in how the instrument is controlled. Toward the center of the screen slithers a line of  musical and rhythmic power you must harness. By pointing the PS2's analog stick in the corresponding direction and “strumming” the guitar with circle in time with the line of music you break through the enemy's will. This unique approach to moving with the music really puts you in control, sliding down with the lower notes and rocking to all high heaven when the music's just right. It's not all fun and games, however, as when the opponent reacts and plays his licks back, you have to dodge the incoming fire with the controller's four main face buttons. One odd feature of the songs are that you can't pause them once you're begun; fortunately, the “retry” function restarts the song immediately with no need to reload the level.

To balance the excitement of Single Player, Multi-Player mode offers nothing new and is significantly slower and easier than any Single Player song. At times when transitioning from one person playing to the other, as this is all that happens, we get a glimpse of greatness: the overlapping and duality of two guitarists fighting to be heard. The developers must have been rushed, as there is no other explanation as to how Multi-Player, with so much potential, could turn out so bland.

The almost cartoon-like graphics feel right for the quirky spirit of this game and the localization leaves the outrageous oddities of Japanese writing intact, with such gems as “I should get a medal for floor pedal.” The soundtrack is also really top notch, a first class compilation of original works anyone can enjoy. Written and performed by Tomohiro Harada and COIL, a Japanese rock band, the levels' music quickly jolts you back and forth from techno to rock ballad and jazz fusion to a pure shredder's anthem.

In all this rocking, be sure to take time to appreciate some jewels of the game's character: Whenever U-1 gets his hands on his Gitaroo, he transforms from a three foot tall geek to a six foot tall God of Rock the dog is suddenly a robot; the three skeleton opponents' pelvises look just like PS2 controllers; and the phrase that should have caught on in pop culture, “Infinity Impossible”. With a simple, yet extremely effective gameplay idea and a solid soundtrack both John Coltrane and Geddy Lee could appreciate to back it up, Gitaroo Man will have you playing 'till the cows come home. I give this game 9 "infinity impossible" points out of 10.